Multiple File Merge And Business Logic

Project Overview:
This project implements a modular ETL (Extract, Transform, Load) pipeline in Python. The pipeline follows a separation-of-concerns architecture, where each stage of data processing is isolated into independent modules. This design improves maintainability, reusability, and testability.

The pipeline processes raw CSV data, applies business transformation logic, and outputs a cleaned dataset. Logging is integrated for monitoring execution flow, and unit tests validate transformation logic to ensure reliability.

Architecture Design:
The project is structured as follows:
pipeline.py → Orchestrates pipeline execution
↓
extract.py → Handles data ingestion from raw CSV files
↓
transform.py → Applies cleaning rules and business logic
↓
load.py → Writes processed data to destination file

Design Principles:
Separation of Concerns: Each module has a single responsibility.
Modular Design: Components can be reused or replaced independently.
Testability: Transformation logic is validated using unit tests.
Observability: Logging captures pipeline execution and errors.
This structure allows easy extension, such as replacing CSV input with a database source without modifying transformation logic.

Tech Stack:
Python
Pandas
Logging (built-in logging module)
Pytest
CSV file handling

How to Run:
python pipeline.py
Key Features

Modular ETL architecture:
Error handling with logging
Unit-tested transformation logic
Clean and maintainable project structure

Future Improvements:
Replace CSV ingestion with database source (PostgreSQL/MySQL)
Add configuration file for dynamic input/output paths
Integrate Docker for containerized deployment
Add CI/CD workflow for automated testing
Implement data validation checks before loading

Error Handling Strategy:
The pipeline uses structured error handling with try-except blocks to ensure failures are logged properly. Exceptions are logged with detailed messages and re-raised to prevent silent failures, ensuring data integrity and traceability.

Testing
Unit tests are implemented using Pytest to validate transformation logic and ensure expected outputs. This prevents regression issues and ensures business rules are consistently applied.
